---
title: 12 个最宝贵的人生经验
date: 2024-04-04 23:51:00
category:
 - TED 演讲
---

My seven-year-old grandson sleeps just down the hall from me, and he wakes up a lot of mornings and he says, "You know, this could be the best day ever." And other times, in the middle of the night, he calls out in a tremulous[^tremulous] voice, "Nana, will you ever get sick and die?"

[^tremulous]: adj. 颤抖的

I think this pretty much says it for me and most of the people I konw, that we're a mixed grill of happy anticipation[^anticipation] and dread. So I sat down a few days before my 61st birthday, and I decided to compile[^compile] a list of everything I know for sure. There's so little truth in the popular culture, and it's good to be sure of a few things. For instance, I am no longer 47, although this is the age I feel, and the age I like to think of myself as bing. My friend Paul used to say in his 70s that he felt like a young man with something really wrong with him.

[^compile]: v. 编写
[^anticipation]: n. 期盼；期望

Our true person is outside of time and space, but looking at the paperwork, I can, in fact, see that I was born in 1954. My inside self is outside of time and space. It doesn't have an age.

I'm every age I've ever been, and so are you, although I can't help mentioning as an aside that it might have been helpfull if I hadn't followed the skin care rules of the '60s, which involed getting as much sun as poosible while slathered[^slathere] in baby oil and basking in the glow of a tinfoil reflector shield.

[^slathere]: v. 厚厚涂抹

It was so liberating[^liberating], though, to face the truth that I was no longer in the last throes of middle age, that I decided to write down every single true thing I know. People feel really doomed and overwhelmed these days, and they keep asking me what's true. So I hope that my list of things I'm almost positive about might offer some basic operating instructions to anyone who is feeling really overwhelmed of beleaguered[^beleaguered].

[^liberatng]: adj. 解脱的
[^beleaguered]: adj. 处于困境的

Number one: the first and truest thing is that all truth is a paradox. Life is both a precious, unfathomably beautiful gift, and it's been a impossible here, on the incarnational side of things. It's been a very bad match for those of us who were born extremely sensitive. It's so hard and weird that we sometimes wonder if we're bing punked. It's filled simultaneously with heartbreaking sweetness and beauty, desperate poverty, floods and babies and acne and Mozart, all swirled together. I don't think it's an ideal system.

Number two: almost everything will work again if you unplug it for a few minutes -- (Laughter) including you.

Three: there is almost nothing outside of you that will help in any kind of lasting way, unless you're waiting for an organ. You can't buy, achieve or date serenity[^serenity] and peace of mind. This is the most horrible truth, and I so resent[^resent] it. But it's an inside job, and we can't arrange[^arrange] peace or lasting[^lasting] improvement for the people we love most in the world. They have to find their own ways, their own answers. You can't run alongside your grown children with sunscreen[^sunscreen] and ChapStick[^ChapStick] on their hero's journey. You have to release them. It's disrespectful not to. And if it's someone else's problem, you probably don't have the answer, anyway.

[^serenity]: n. 平静；宁静
[^resent]: v. 愤恨
[^arrange]: v. 安排
[^lasting]: adj. 持久的
[^sunscreen]: n. 防晒霜
[^ChapStick]: n. 防裂唇膏

