---
title: Adopting Defense-in-Depth Strategy to Enhance Cybersecurity in Industrial Control Systems
date: 2023-01-26 12:28:05
category: Notes
tags: Cybersecurity
---

Industrial control systems, as an integral part of critical infrastructure, play a vital role in simplifying operations in sectors such as power, oil and gas, water supply, transportation, and chemical industries.

<!-- more -->


The escalating cybersecurity issues and their increasing impact on industrial control systems underscore the significant risks faced by critical infrastructure.

Addressing the cybersecurity challenges in industrial control systems requires a clear understanding of security threats and specific protective measures.

A holistic approach, using specific measures to progressively enhance security, assists in mitigating cybersecurity threats and vulnerabilities in industrial control systems. This approach, commonly known as "defense-in-depth," is well-suited for industrial control systems, providing a flexible and effective framework for optimizing network security.

The growing attention to control system cybersecurity is driven by the continued use of traditional features in some systems and the increasing demand for interconnectivity in industrial control systems.

Under this scrutiny, numerous known vulnerabilities have been discovered, and novel threats previously unseen in the field of industrial control systems have emerged.

Many aging systems lack adequate security capabilities to defend against new threats, and current cybersecurity solutions cannot be employed due to their impact on system availability.

The connection of industrial control systems to enterprise, vendor, or peer networks exacerbates this problem.

## Overview of Current Industrial Control System Architecture

Once isolated, industrial control systems are gradually moving towards integration, aiding enterprises in simplifying and managing complex environments. When introducing IT components into the industrial control system domain and enabling connectivity, the following issues can lead to security problems:

- Increasing reliance on automation and industrial control systems.
- Insecure connections to external networks.
- Use of technologies with known vulnerabilities, introducing unprecedented network risks in the control domain.
- Lack of network security business cases relevant to the industrial control system environment.
- Limited security capabilities of certain control system technologies, often activated by administrators only when discovered (or without hindering the process).
- Many commonly used control system communication protocols lack basic security features such as authentication and authorization.
- Abundance of open-source information on industrial control systems, operations, and security vulnerabilities [^1].

[^1]: This method is a unique approach to effectively safeguard network and IT network security. Integrating a new IT architecture with isolated networks lacking genuine network security protection poses significant challenges. While routers and switches can be used to connect devices simply, unauthorized access by individuals could result in unrestricted access to the system.

For a long time, the industry has defined the operational security of control systems as the reliability level for the secure and effective operation of the system. Fully isolating industrial control systems from external (untrusted) networks confines the overall scope of secure communication to threats related to employees (where employees refer to those who have physical access to devices or plant shop floor). In this manner, most data communication within the information infrastructure only requires limited authorization or security oversight. Running commands, instructions, and data collection occur in a closed environment where all communication is trusted. Generally, commands or instructions are issued over the network and are expected to execute authorized functions upon reaching their destination, as only authorized operators can access the system.

## Security Challenges within Industrial Control Systems

In modern TCP/IP-based computing environments (such as enterprise infrastructure managing the operation of control systems drivers), there is a need to address technology-related vulnerabilities. Traditionally, these issues were the responsibility of the enterprise's IT security organization, working based on the security guidance for important information assets and operational plans. However, when industrial control systems are part of a converged architecture, the primary focus shifts to how to provide security policies that simultaneously cover the control system domain. Security issues generated by existing network communications need to be resolved within the control system domain due to different vendors using various protocols, coupled with inherent security problems in aging systems, which might make it challenging to protect critical business systems from current network attacks.

Vulnerabilities existing in open systems architectures that can be migrated to the control system domain include malware (viruses, worms, etc.) vulnerabilities, elevation of privilege through code manipulation, network reconnaissance, and data collection, covert traffic analysis, and illegal intrusion into the network by bypassing or penetrating the boundary defenses. For more advanced systems, vulnerabilities also include malicious mobile code activities involving JavaScript, applet programs, VBScript, and ActiveX. Once successful infiltration into the industrial control system network occurs, new problems arise, such as reverse engineering of control system protocols, attacks against operator consoles, illegal access to trusted peer networks, and remote facilities. To fully integrate information security and information assurance into the control system domain, it is essential to understand the key differences between traditional IT architectures and industrial control system technologies.

## Five Key Security Measures for Industrial Control Systems

The following are five key security measures that can drive cybersecurity activities in an industrial control system environment.

1. **Security Guidance:**
   - Develop security guidance for control systems and their components, regularly review it, and incorporate the current threat environment, system functionalities, and the required security level.

2. **Access Prevention to Resources and Services:**
   - Deploy boundary devices such as firewalls or proxy servers in the network to provide access control lists. On the host side, deploy host-based firewalls and antivirus software.

3. **Detection of Malicious Activities:**
   - Implement malicious activity detection at the network or host level, usually requiring experienced administrators to monitor log files regularly. Intrusion detection systems (IDS) are commonly used for identifying network issues and can also be deployed on individual hosts. It is advisable to enable auditing and event logging features on hosts.

4. **Mitigation of Potential Attacks:**
   - In many cases, there is no need to address vulnerabilities because fixing them might render the system unusable or less efficient. By implementing mitigation measures, administrators can control access to vulnerabilities, ensuring they are not exploited. This situation often calls for creating temporary technical solutions, creating filters, or running services and applications with specific configurations.

5. **Addressing Core Issues:**
   - To address core security issues, regularly update, upgrade, install software vulnerability patches, or remove vulnerable applications. Software vulnerabilities may exist in any layer of the network, operating system, or application. Manufacturers or developers should provide mitigation measures (if available) for administrators to deploy.

> Original Title: Recommended Practice: Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-In-Depth Strategies